<!DOCTYPE html>

<html>



 


 <body>  


<h3>
Period B: Marxism
          Friedrich Engels sees that the aesthetics of novel is realism. When aspiring writers with the ideas of the advancement of proletariat would send their manuscripts to Engels, he often said that “you don’t have to glorify the proletariats. What you want to do is to see them in a way they exist.” Therefore, to Engels, it is important for them to understand the world realistically, not tendentiously. Before the rise of the novel, however, almost every prose literature was tendentious; for example, heroes and heroines in prose literature were about killing dragons and monsters and destroying evil power. However, prose literature in the late seventeenth century and eighteenth century, which we call the advent of early novel form, started to become realistic and see the world as it is. This change is mainly due to the rise of material and technology. When people started to print and read books, the way of consuming literature was also changed from the collective and heroic to the private and realistic. Therefore, this paper will discuss the rise and the development of the novel in the perspective of Marxism and Marxist’s principle of realism. 
          Daniel Defoe’s novel, Robinson Crusoe is an early example of realism and the development of novel form. It is an adventure story about a castaway in the rise of curiosity of the New World. In fact, since the novel was written in the era of the early development of novel form, it still contains heroic narratives; for example, he is the conqueror of the nature and he is the embodiment of Euro-centric ideals. Nevertheless, the novel is realistic. Crusoe’s family is staunchly a middle class, and it was a big issue when the middle class was just emerging in the eighteenth century. Also, there is no supernatural heroism in the narrative. The novel documents that his island is not built in a day. He spends his life in the island for twenty-eight years to build so called his kingdom. Also, the novel documents significant amount of personal account of Crusoe bound up with his fear and efforts to build his kingdom. However, a Marxist critic would see that the novel is a realistic description to show how economic value judges human lives. One of the biggest concerns of the novel that affects human lives is the relationship between man and society. Crusoe sees that nature as something that must be useful. He calculates everything; natural world is quantifiable and knowable. He colonizes the island and turns it into his own dominion. After all, it’s not so much the beauty of the island that brings him pleasure, but the idea that he dominates the island. In a chapter, Crusoe remembers what he had felt in the island: “My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very rich in Subject; and it was a merry Reflection I frequently make, How like a King I look’d.” Crusoe’s statement clearly shows that how material resources were important for him to rule the island. 
          A Marxist critic, Fredric Jameson, argues that novel’s realism almost always contains a social contradiction and a symbolic solution articulated by the unconsciousness of the author. In his book, The Political Unconscious, he argues that authors often manifest a symbolic act of subversive politics in their literary works. In this case, authors unconsciously demonstrate a narrative in which they symbolically resolve the contradiction that cannot be resolved in reality. Jameson takes advantage of Levi-Strauss’s idea of Caduveo face painting in “The Savage Mind.” According to Levi-Strauss, the Caduveo started to draw face painting as a symbolic act to resolve the social contradiction. The Caduveo people are not even aware of what they are drawing and why it matters because it is all done from their unconsciousness. Jameson sees the same practice from novels, expressing the open and the obvious forms of social contradiction articulated by author’s unconsciousness. 
          For example, Jane Austen in the Pride and Prejudice reveals class struggles and resolves the contractions that cannot be resolved in reality. Elizabeth’s subversive character is the dominant nature of the novel. She contradicts the social norms and traditions. At the end of the novel, Elizabeth contends with the Lady Katherine who resides at the top of the social pyramid, and she finally ignores Lady Katherine’s will not to marry Mr. Darcy. Elizabeth miraculously succeeds the marriage with Mr. Darcy, which would elevate her social status at the top of the category. According to Jameson’s political unconscious, this may be the unconscious act of Jane Austen to resolve the contradiction between classes in the nineteenth century. For a woman of middle class in the nineteenth century, to marry an aristocrat is not a never-never land; it sometimes miraculously happens. However, in reality, it does not mean that the world is going to change. Therefore, the novel is a kind of symbolic act to address social contradiction that otherwise cannot be addressed in reality. It simply works to let off the steam of the oppressed.
          Another example is Charles Dickens’s Great Expectations. It addresses the contemporary issues, such as social justice and inequality. Although England was growing rich and powerful in the era of colonialism and capitalism, Dickens saw injustice run rampant among the working class in England. By creating a young protagonist who is born orphan in a poor family but miraculously becomes rich in high society, Dickens, in his unconscious, tries to resolve the contradiction between working class and high class in England. In earlier chapter, Pip as a boy wishes to be a part of the world to which Estella belongs. This wish of young Pip turns out to be true when he gets the notice that he will inherit huge amount of money from an unknown contributor. In fact, this is a symbolic act of Dickens to resolve the social contradiction by transforming a poor orphan boy into a rich gentleman. However, it does not mean that the world is going to change. It is about only one person miraculously becomes a noble and gets over the social inequality. Therefore, the novel reveals the social contradiction that otherwise cannot be addressed in reality. 
          As the Capitalism was rampant since the late nineteenth century, Marxist literary criticism only saw that literature is based on social and economic circumstances. Therefore, it is no doubt that novels almost always concern social and economic circumstances on which they are written and read. Thus, novels are focusing not only ideals and romance, but also class straggles and ideology, and, in many cases, those two different concepts are working together in the same novel. This is because the realism of novel liberated the limitation of form and subject matters by incorporating heterogenous raw materials and versatile narrative tools. Mikhail Bakhtin suggests a term, heteroglossia, which is diversity of voice in a literary work. He argues that novel is the privileged genre because of its carnivalistic and heterogeneous nature through which novel deals with various subjects. 
          Emily Bronte’s Wuthering Height shows this heterogeneous nature of novel form. For example, from beginning to end, there are full of Gothic features in the narrative. When Lockwood feels that as if the ghost of Catherine attempts to come into the Wuthering Height through the windows in his first night, his fascination is piqued. The moors, the house, and the people are infused with supernatural elements. These gothic features are also connected to the Romantic movements in the nineteenth century. Isaiah Berlin describes the Romanticism as a sort of thing that “half delightful and half terrifying.” The nature, the more, and the house are both beautiful and terrifying. Not only that, the novel is definitely about a love story between Catherine and Heathcliff. Although the fanatical and impassioned affections of the two lovers are making them more and more miserable rather than happy, the complex dimension of romantic, platonic, and erotic love through the nostalgia of their childhood makes the novel as a transcendent love story. However, a Marxist critic, Raymond Williams argues that Wuthering Height is not about a romance between two lovers. It is about class origin, and it is about how industrialization impacts on English culture. Heathcliff was not a Romeo, but he was a dark-skinned outsider and a reminder of dramatic social change. Being an orphan with no family ties, and having no property, Heathcliff is the lowest class in the novel. The novel never makes clear where Heathcliff is originally from. Although Mr. Earnshaw says that he picked him up in the street of Liverpool, a port town where immigrants entered England, which implies that Heathcliff has just been to England from another country. This particularly indicates the fear of English people for foreigners who have a potential threat to pollute pure English blood. Nelly sums up the reginal biases of the Yorkshire inhabitants when she says that “We don’t in general take to foreigners here, Mr. Lockwood, unless, they take to us first.” 
          George Eliot’s Middlemarch also show the heterogeneous nature of novel form because it not only deals with various dreams and ideals, but also it is closely related to the social and economic circumstances in the nineteenth century England. First of all, the main characters in Middlemarch, no matter whether it is plausible or not, are obsessed with their own ideal worlds. For example, Dorothea is obsessed with the idea that she would make the world a better place; Mr. Casaubon wants to discover something fundamental about religion and how all the mythologies in the world are related; and Lydgate wants to develop fundamental principle in biology. However, deep down in the narrative, the novel is about social and political reform in the late nineteen century England. The novel was published in 1870-71, just four years after the second Reform Bill had been passed in the Parliament. Reform was a big concern in the nineteenth century England with many social and political issues. However, the novel is set in 1830, two years earlier than the First Reform Bill was passed. This gives readers a sense of contrast between historical and immediate, and universal and individual experience of the specific political event. In fact, this is what made the novel so popular at that time it was published because it concerns the most important issues that may greatly affect the economic and political circumstances of individual lives.






</h3>



   

  </body>





    

</html>
